Strive for at least 150 minutes of exercise per week: Break it down to 40 minutes 4 days a week, 30 minutes 5 days a week, or however you’d like! Choose what works best for your lifestyle.
Cut your coffee calories: Cut calories in your morning cup of coffee by skipping the cream and sugar. Instead, try drinking it black or reducing your amount of each.
Keep a fitness journal: Tracking keeps you accountable, and studies show that those who keep journals are more successful at weight loss than those who don’t.
Pay attention to your thoughts: Thoughts are powerful; bring awareness to yours. Do you encourage yourself with body positivity or hold yourself back with negativity? A change in mindset could be all it takes to get your health on track.
Eat the rainbow: Eat foods that are closest to their natural state as possible. Aim for whole, fresh foods in a rainbow of colors.
Avoid processed foods: Watch out, because processed foods have multiple negative side effects. Generally speaking, the fewer the ingredients, the better the food. Taking a quick look at food labels can tell you a lot, but ideally, the majority of food you buy doesn’t need a label.
Make sure you drink water: Most adults need about two quarts of fluid per daily to replace normal water loss, or approximately eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day. Try this hydration calculator to check your personalized H2O needs.
Protein u: Add protein powder to smoothies for an added boost. Choose unflavored powders for versatility.
Find your “why”: Identify your deeper reason to get healthy other than the number on the scale. Do you want to be able to run with your children or grandchildren? How about being able to enjoy food without feeling guilty all the time? Staying in touch with a deeper reason for health can motivate you to keep going when things get tough.
Do workouts you enjoy: Find a form (or two!) of movement you truly enjoy. It’s easier to stick to things we look forward to rather than dread. Power walking? Go for it. HIIT? Do it!
Incorporate strength training: Add some muscle-building activities to your workouts. Free weights, resistance band exercises, muscle sculpt classes or using your body weight with push-ups, planks and squats all work. A personal trainer could help you put together a beginner’s program, or browse our site for tons of strength training moves to try!
Set perfectionism aside: Keep in mind that striving for perfection usually leads to disaster. Set small goals and stair-step your way to success by developing healthy habits every day. Celebrate those wins, regardless of perfection.
Don’t DIET: One of the best fitness tips may seem counterintuitive, but stop dieting. Reverse the letters in the word and EDIT what you eat. Make it a lifestyle change toward healthier foods, not a deprivation plan.
Take recovery days: Give yourself one to two days a week for active recovery. Rest days should be simple. Take a walk. Do a gentle yoga class. Just engage in something that’s less intense than what you do for exercise the other days of the week.
Keep healthy snacks on hand: Select healthier choices to have on standby in your fridge when hunger pangs or emotional eating strikes, such as a bowl of fresh strawberries or blueberries. Here are some healthy snacks to try whenever cravings strike.
Follow the 80/20 rule: Most fitness wisdom says to eat healthy 80 percent of the time. Indulge occasionally, but make sure most of your choices are healthy.
Shop the perimeter of your grocery store: Food tends to be the healthiest and less processed on the outside edges of most grocery stores. Here you’ll find fresh fruit and veggies, raw meat and fresh seafood.
Don’t just focus on the scale: Find different ways to measure success other than stepping on the scale. Instead, pay attention to how you feel after you’ve been working out consistently. Think about the long term health benefits of exercise.
Get an accountability partner: Working out in groups can offer more benefits than working out alone – science supports it! Find your go-to person for exercise and weight loss support. Enlist that friend that says “let’s work out, we’ll feel better if we do.” Exercise together, share tips and swap encouragement.
Try working out in the morning: Get that heart rate up first thing in the morning. While the time of day makes no difference when it comes to results, you may be more likely to make excuses as time goes on. Plus, a morning workout might be perfect for some “you” time.
Display your results: Whether it’s the pounds you have lost, how many times you worked out this week, or a picture of you showing off results, display it to motivate you to keep it up!
Track your workout schedule: Circle the days on a calendar when you’ve worked out, or mark it on your phone. That way, you can feel proud of your successes and be able to repeat the schedule that worked for you in the past.
Build muscle: Want to speed up your metabolism? Building muscle is the key since muscle burns more fat at rest. Add muscle-building moves in addition to your high-intensity workouts and see long term benefits.
Two pounds at a time: Don’t overwhelm yourself with your ideal goal weight. When you are down two pounds, let yourself feel proud and then think about the next two.
Eat smaller portions: Portion control is crucial – especially when you are eating indulgent food. These portion control tips can help you get started.
Use gym-wear as motivation: Fitness tips can be fun and we all want to look great. Why not buy a new workout top, headband, or piece of equipment. Having something new can motivate you to actually use it!
Eat slowly: One of the most powerful yet simple tips to try is to eat slowly. Put your fork down in between bites to keep from overeating. When you eat more slowly, you allow your mind some time to recognize when your body is full.
Treat yourself: Pat yourself on the back for all your hard work with a massage, your favorite TV show, or draw yourself a nice, relaxing bath. Prioritize self-care a few times a week. Just make sure your “treat” doesn’t sabotage your success: like a pint of Ben & Jerry’s 😉
Make a list of positive affirmations: Here’s a few to get you started- I love to exercise. I want to live a healthy life. My body is getting healthier every day.
Don’t beat yourself up: There’s no such thing as “cheating”. Don’t be too hard on yourself or your body. Empower yourself to make a better choice next time.
Make fitness a top priority:Put your health goals at the top of your priority list. If you’re constantly taking care of everyone else, you’ll never have time to take care of yourself!
Swap a bad decision with a good one: When in doubt, go with the healthy alternative!
Don’t skip multiple workouts: Try to never go more than two days in a row without exercise, unless of course you are injured or ill. This applies to your vacations too! Remember: not all workouts have to be high-intensity. Try these low-intensity workouts for the days it’s hard to muster up the energy.
Eat mindfully: Be mindful of what you are eating. Ask yourself if you really are hungry or if something else is going on that’s causing you to turn to food. The HALT method can be helpful – ask yourself if you are Hungry, Angry, Lonely, or Tired. Emotions can trick us into thinking we’re hungry when we’re not.
Just keep going: This is a tip to swear by: just keep going. Don’t start and stop, just keep going. If exercise is new to you, start off slow and aim for a few workouts per week and then increase as you go.
Create measurable goals you can check off: These should be smaller things that take you only a couple of weeks to accomplish. You can have your ultimate goal, but if it’s years out, motivation can wane.